welcome to another episode of b2b
marketing and more and big hello from
raleigh north carolina today i am
talking to not a marketer but a sales
professional ryan staley is the ceo and
founder of whale boss and he is a
fantastic and high performance sales
person so welcome ryan happy to be on
the show thanks for having me on pam all
right well boss what a wonderful name
can you tell me where your company's
name from it seemed like a natural
progression because
essentially over the last i don't know
six and a half years that i was in the
corporate world
essentially i had to grow a team they're
like hey ryan we want you to move up
market we want to move a market and
create a team and i'm like okay what's
the go to market strategy they're like
go figure it out i'm like what's the
sales playbook so like go figure it out
i go where's my team they're like don't
figure it out you don't have one go
figure it out right
it's a good company but very scrappy in
terms of resource availability and so
what happened is we grew
from adding really really large
customers so we added i think it was
close to over 35 500 000 plus contracts
a 20 million dollar contract and we
basically grew the business unit from
zero to 30 million in annual reoccurring
revenue in six years with only four
sales people so i'm like okay well what
i want to do for my future when i left
there is help companies close these
really big deals and implement the sales
systems to do that that's where the name
came from awesome so you capture whales
and big whales all the time and
obviously that means the big deals and
big dollars
obviously you have been in sales all
your life can you tell us what are some
of the tips and tricks to be a good
sales person i would say most
people make the mistake of focusing on
what just the company wants you talking
about what the customer want what the
customer's company wants
not the customer as an individual
themselves and so
and here's what i would tell you is like
i've done the entire gambit you know
half my career i was a salesperson half
my career i was a sales leadership you
know being a vice president of strategic
accounts
when i left and and really like the key
things are people are trying to sell
let's say larger deals one of the things
that a lot of companies or people focus
on are sales reps or sales leaders is
like hey the roi for the company is this
they're going to say millions of dollars
they're going to do this but one of the
things that they forget
is how is that individual person
evaluated at the end of the year when
they sit down with their boss that
you're just finished are they going to
get a bonus or are they going to get
demoted
and did they hit on what they were
supposed to so that's the tangible
business side of it but then also it's
like what is that solution going to do
emotionally for that person that you're
selling to because logic is how people
make decisions emotion is what creates
action and so those two kind of triggers
are key things to look at when you're
trying to work and sell so i would say
that's number one number two is just ask
really really good questions that's one
of the advantages that sales has over
marketing is we can actually physically
talk to the people versus like looking
and getting feedback from communities
and social you can actually talk to the
people and ask them specific tangible
questions on the outcomes they want
what's bothering them all those details
so i would say just being a ninja at
asking really really good questions that
are thought provoking and that make
people question
thoughts that they've had previously the
number one thing you are talking about i
love it very much you basically said
it's not what company wants you focus on
how that decision makers or the
prospects that you talk to specifically
what will impact them you kind of take
care of their needs and also take care
of in terms of how they will be
evaluating on the marketing side do
something similar it's like interesting
your customers well i think you're doing
that as a salesperson on top of it i
love love love you hear the core in
terms of like asking good good questions
when you ask thought provoking questions
you actually get people to think and say
you know what i didn't think about that
now if we take that into account
is the solution that we are evaluating
right now makes a lot of sense so i love
that that's actually great so with that
being said my next question is when you
get to know a prospect and you start
asking self-provoking questions that's
great because you got you know them
already but cold calling is very hard so
how do you go about doing that reaching
to the prospects that you don't know to
get them to be interested to talk to you
how do you go about doing that i do
elements of cold calling cold calling
can fit in a lot of different buckets
that could be social interaction that
can actually be picking up a phone that
could be texting that could be email
that could be direct messaging so
there's a lot of different channels that
you do
make that a reality and so what i would
say is that the number one most
important thing to do because like it's
funny pam my first job it was an inside
sales position i know how hard that job
is i put it inside sales for a while man
it is a hard job what i would tell you
is the number one most important thing
is
relevancy
to
what stage that company or person is in
and so i would say with relevancy is
probably the most important
thing and then the other is don't be
spammy
i just got this today and it happened
and i could tell when i'm on like an
auto sequencer from someone they're just
like i can tell you know my radar is i
was like yeah that's an auto sequencing
mail
the person reached out and like hey we
have this new sas solution this is what
it does we're interested in your
feedback
and then they send me the same kind of
like canned robotic message and then
they sent me again and i go listen i
have no idea what you're talking about
or like what the outcome you're looking
for please take me off the sequencer
like i literally say that so i would say
relevancy relevancy to the stage where
people are at what they're doing
for example there was a deal that my
team was working and the reps were full
cycle and so they had a prospect they
didn't have like an sdr team or we
didn't have any marketing support so
they had to find a way to get into these
really really big fortune 1000 fortune
500 companies well one of the companies
they were trying to get into was
walgreens and walgreens is like fortune
10 so they're even bigger than big right
well what happened was walgreens just
recently merged with boots this was
maybe four years back they just merged
with boots and their ceo and chairman
identified in their press release that
the number one priorities and outcomes
from the merger is gain quote-unquote
synergies where they're gonna get 500
million dollars in synergies from
merging the companies what they were
saying basically is they're taking 500
million dollars out of the business and
cost
one of the levers we hit on to get in
there was to link to that initiative
that the ceo was talking about because
it's top down it's coming from the
management top down so that's a good
example of how to hit on that you could
look at 10ks you could look at other
financials if you want on that the
letter to the ceo and the annual report
is great obviously that doesn't scale
for smaller mid-market companies so
there's different strategies but for big
big deals that's what i'd recommend i
think the biggest takeaway from your
answer is if you do cold calling yes it
is very hard it's not easy job but you
have to do your homework you have to do
your research find a way to talk to them
and make that relevant to them the next
things i want to ask very quickly is
have sales engagements change during
pandemic you know for longest time um
the sales people they prefer
face-to-face they prefer in-person
visits obviously we can't do much of
that during pandemic how did you adapt
if you're in a sales process and you're
selling
even if you're in mid-market like let's
say it's a deal forty thousand dollars
average contract value or annual
contract value 30 or 20 something that's
not just like a one call close type
you require multiple follow-ups yeah
yeah it's multiple touches and so
one of the the cool things that you
could do
is really try and connect with that
person emotionally
about something every single call that
you have with them
and what i kind of look at is a little
bit like it's kind of like layering and
finding a little bit more about the
person a little bit deeper every single
communication touch point that you talk
to them live why that's so critical is
because
pre-pandemic that's what happens at the
lunches the dinners the in-person
meetings after the big meetings are done
the wine and dying yeah
well it could be wine it could just be
coffee it could just be anything it's
just connecting with people at an
emotional level and so what what's
happening i see people jumping from zoom
call to zoom called the zoom called zoom
call and they're really not taking the
time to understand what lights that
person up at an individual level
or why they're really doing what they're
doing they're just focused on business
business business business then they
just get looked at as a number when they
need to get deals done things go dark so
there's a lot of really really
big problems that happen if you don't
develop that relationship even if it's
remotely only what you are trying to say
is i mean obviously
before pandemic the sales people can do
a lot of in-person visit they can
actually have a coffee they can actually
take the client out and through a very
informal
social gathering you get to know the
person
and you need to translate or convert
that into to do something similar but in
the virtual communication and sounds
like what you are suggesting is during
the call make an effort to find out who
that person is
as an individual a real specific example
this is the number one question that i
coach people to say because like
as a vp i would have to pop into deals
and find a way to connect with someone
within minutes
right after never meeting them after the
wrap and i like i kind of cracked the
code on it and one of the the key
questions you want me to share with you
is that cool sure that would be great
it's basically like what's the number
one thing you like to spend your time on
outside of work so what people mostly
say is well
kids or family they'll just say ah i
just spent all my time on kids or family
it's like okay well if you're not
spending time with kids or family what's
the number one thing you like to do like
for fun or as a hobby or whatever and
like i can't tell you
the stories that get unlocked from that
there's an executive at a multi-billion
dollar company and asked that question
to and he went on like a half hour
discussion about how passionate he was
about photographing
waterfalls and how he took two vacations
a year to see different waterfalls
across the world and they had a separate
instagram account and so it just really
opens up that person's passion and
allows you to connect with them as a
real human being as opposed to just at a
business transaction level and then
there's ways where you could stack other
things on top of that and so think about
it if you're doing this every single
step along the way you have five
interactions with them that's a
completely different experience after
five or six times versus someone who
just
you know goes through the business
motions of it how do you mix personal
questions along with the business
question and to keep that conversation
going there's the standard sometimes
downtime like when you first start or
towards the end where there's
opportunities to do that
it's always easy and it depends there's
different flows to it right every now
and then there'll be a person like okay
we'll just get to this get to this get
to this right but what i would tell you
is there's a lot of people that aren't
like that i mean i would say the
majority like 90 plus aren't like just
get to it they're open to talking and
they want to enjoy conversations and
especially because they're in front of
the computer
a lot it's not as much as it was at the
beginning of the pandemic but they're a
lot so they like to enjoy the time in
front of it as well so people are
definitely open to the conversations
that kind of engagement that kind of
personal interaction needs to be done by
sales
if you actually have a marketing people
supporting you they cannot do that on
your behalf
if you're doing
like and it's so funny i heard kyle lacy
talk about this he was a cmo at lesson
league
and
one of the things that he kind of
identified as having almost like a joint
service level agreement between
marketing and sales
one last question what are some of the
sales people's pet peeves that we should
know like if you guys are like sometimes
in the zone and we should not be talking
to you or you guys are working on a big
deal
and then you know everybody in the
situation room and there's a war plan so
is there any kind of pet fees that we
should know that is most of the sales
people have would i think probably be
the biggest one that i've seen when when
it comes to sales and marketing
is sending out a bunch of content
that isn't anywhere near a line what the
sales messaging is or what's a priority
that's a great point and in my workshop
i usually talk about content mapping you
need to map the content to sales stages
understand how those people sell and
then also the type of question they tend
to address at different sales stages and
then you customize the content
specifically for that needs
all right very good i only have three
minutes of your time i want to ask you
one silly question so what shows are you
binge watching right now and do you
recommend it
i'm not like a huge a super big binge
watcher but there's two shows that are
on my radar one is like totally stupid
humor called the righteous gemstones it
takes a unique person to enjoy it it's
kind of like from the kenny powers world
and it basically is danny mcbride
john goodman and it's basically like
a joke on the
mega churches with the preacher and his
family it's so ridiculous and so over
the top
thank you so much ryan for coming to my
show much appreciated no problem pam
thanks for having me on
if you really like the episode like the
topics we talk about at b2b marketing
and more please subscribe and comment
love love to hear from you all right
take care bye
[Music]
never miss an episode of b2b marketing
and more by following us here on youtube
and leave a comment while you're at it
you can also find episodes wherever you
get your podcasts
[Music]
you